---
permalink: /
layout: archive
title: ""
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /research
  - /research.html
---

{% include base_path %}

My IDEAS website [here](https://ideas.repec.org/f/pmu357.html) and my SSRN website [here](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1614662).

# Selected Work in Progress (titles subject to change):

* **Pre-testing for Unobserved Cluster Effects and Inference in Panel Data Sets.** (with Wim Vijverberg)
* **Corruption and Electoral Performance.** (with Nuria Rodriguez-Planas)
* **Are Budget Rigidities a Source of Fiscal Distress and a Constraint for Fiscal Consolidation?** (with Eduardo Olaberria)
* **What Determines the Size of Public Employment? An Empirical Investigation.** (with Santiago Herrera)

# Working Papers:

* **Inequality in Latin America: Learning from matched employer-employee data.** (with Graciana Rucci, Fernando Saltiel, and Sergio Urzua) [[draft]](https://publications.iadb.org/publications/english/document/Wage_Inequality_in_Latin_America_Learning_from_Matched_Employer-Employee_Data_en_en.pdf) <details> <summary> <i> abstract </i> </summary> <p> <div class="panel" style="background-color: #F1F1F1; color: #666; padding: 10px;"> Inequality in Latin America fell substantially in the early 2000s. In this paper, we take advantage of administrative matched employee-employed data in Brazil, Chile and Ecuador to examine whether these inequality trends held in the formal sector, as well. We document a significant decrease in the log variance of earnings in Brazil and Ecuador in the early 2000s, whereas inequality in Chile between 2008 and 2015 remained largely flat. In this context, we find that inequality among salaried workers is largely a between-firm phenomenon across these three countries. We expand on our descriptive analysis and estimate an additive worker and firm fixed effects model to understand the driving factors behind inequality in the region. We find a significant decline in between-firm inequality in Brazil and a modest one in Chile. We last focus our attention on the commodities and manufacturing sectors, which were directly exposed to two large external shocks, the commodity-boom and the “China Shock”. We find an increase in inequality in the former sector accompanied by an reduction in inequality in the latter across the region. </div> </p> </details>
* **kmr: A Command to Correct Survey Weights for Unit Nonresponse using Group's Response Rates.** (with Salvatore Morelli) [[draft]](http://erciomunoz.github.io/files/Draft.pdf) [[code]](https://github.com/erciomunoz/kmr) <details> <summary> <i> abstract </i> </summary> <p> <div class="panel" style="background-color: #F1F1F1; color: #666; padding: 10px;"> This article describes kmr, a Stata command to estimate a micro compliance function using group’s nonresponse rates (2007, Journal of Econometrics 136: 213-235), which can be used to correct survey weights for unit nonresponse. We illustrate the use of kmr with an empirical example using the Current Population Survey and state-level nonresponse rates. </div> </p> </details> 
* **Unit Nonresponse Bias in the Current Population Survey.** (with Salvatore Morelli) [draft available upon request] <details> <summary> <i> abstract </i> </summary> <p> <div class="panel" style="background-color: #F1F1F1; color: #666; padding: 10px;"> Korinek, Mistiaen, and Ravallion 2007 (Journal of Econometrics 136: 213-235) proposes a method to correct the bias generated by unit nonresponse that depends on household characteristics such as income. They make use of CPS data from 1997 to 2004. In this paper we replicate and extend their empirical results, confirming that response probability is strictly dependent on income levels. With one exception, we replicate in a ‘narrow sense’ the set of year-by-year point estimates. In addition, we use data from 1977 to 2018 to extend the previous results along three dimensions. First, we show that the estimated parameters vary in an important way over time, suggesting an increase in the impact of income on survey compliance during the last decade. Second, we find that the best specification changes over time but it often appears to be one that includes a quadratic term on income, which fits with recent evidence of non-monotonicity in response rates of the Current Population Survey. Finally, the adjustment of household survey weights for differential nonresponse resulted in substantial upward adjustments for the Gini index (8.5% on average across years), top income shares (40% on average across years), total
income (8.1% on average across years), and a downward correction in poverty rates (-8.1% on average across years). </div> </p> </details> 
* **Momentum Effect in the NBA: Exploiting the Fine Line between Winning and Losing.** (with Jiadi Chen and Milan Thomas) [[draft]](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3391748) <details> <summary> <i> abstract </i> </summary> <p> <div class="panel" style="background-color: #F1F1F1; color: #666; padding: 10px;"> Competition in the National Basketball Association takes on two formats in a single season. This provides a pair of fronts on which to test the existence of momentum effects, which have been analyzed extensively in finance and sports. We assess whether a team that wins a match has a higher probability of winning the next match. Since winning is endogenous, we identify the causal effect of winning a game using a regression discontinuity design with NBA data from 1950 to 2018. Like other recent studies, we find evidence of a positive momentum effect in the regular season. In contrast, we find a negative momentum effect for the playoffs. We argue that the tournament design of the playoffs theoretically provides a better set-up to estimate the momentum effect because opponents match up consecutively and repeatedly (allowing us to better control for unobserved factors such as team strength, home-court advantage, and rest time), and that the two parts of the NBA season are not comparable because the incentives of teams and the league shift during the playoffs. Our findings highlight the importance of defining both the nature and domain of momentum, and that, even within a sports league, the existence of momentum depends on context. </div> </p> </details>
* **Did They Hurt Growth? A Synthetic Control Estimate of the Impact of “Bachelet’s Reforms”.** [[draft]](http://erciomunoz.github.io/files/Draft_21Jan2019.pdf) <details> <summary> <i> abstract </i> </summary> <p> <div class="panel" style="background-color: #F1F1F1; color: #666; padding: 10px;"> This paper uses the synthetic control method to estimate the short-term impact on GDP of the reforms implemented between 2014 and 2017 in Chile by the government of President Michelle Bachelet. I find a cumulative fall by the end of 2017 of 13% relative to the synthetic counterfactual. This result is robust to the use of a donor pool that includes economies for which primary commodities are relevant, as well as one that
only includes OECD countries. </div> </p> </details>
* **When Reforms Backfire: The Increasing Incumbency Advantage in Chilean Mayoral Elections.** [draft available upon request] <details> <summary> <i> abstract </i> </summary> <p> <div class="panel" style="background-color: #F1F1F1; color: #666; padding: 10px;"> This paper uses a regression discontinuity design to estimate the causal effect of incumbency status on the probability of winning a mayoral election in Chile. Moreover, it studies how it changed with a reform in the political campaign law that limited advertisement and modified the way in which campaigns were financed to shed some light on some of the potential determinants of this electoral advantage. I find a significant incumbency advantage only after the reform implemented in 2016. For the mayoral elections between 1996 and 2012, I do not find statistically significant advantage but in 2016 election being the incumbent increases significantly the unconditional probability of being elected by 39 percentage points. This finding suggests that the reform benefited the incumbents. </div> </p> </details> 
* **Do Succesful Women Empower Other Women in Politics? Evidence from Chilean Local Elections.** (with Mariel Siravegna) [draft available upon request] 

# Pre-Doctoral
# Peer Reviewed:

* **Ex-Dividend Date Stock Behavior and the Clientele Effect: Evidence around a Tax Reduction.** *Global Finance Journal, Vol. 32, February 2017.* (with A. Rodriguez) [[paper]](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1044028316300795)
* **The Effect of Growth Surprises in China on the Price of Copper.** *Journal the Chilean Economy, Vol. 17 N° 3, 2014.* [[paper]](http://si2.bcentral.cl/public/pdf/revista-economia/2014/dic/recv17n3dic2014-pp110-123.pdf)
* **Do Commodity Prices Shocks Have an Impact on Latin American Stock Markets?.** *Journal the Chilean Economy, Vol. 16 N° 3, 2013.* (with M. Siravegna) [[paper]](http://si2.bcentral.cl/public/pdf/revista-economia/2013/dic/recv16n3dic2013pp102-118.pdf)
* **Commodity Prices and Sovereign Spreads in Emerging Economies. Does Export Concentration Matter?.** *Journal the Chilean Economy, Vol. 16 N°1, 2013.* [[paper]](http://si2.bcentral.cl/public/pdf/revista-economia/2013/abr/recv16n1abr2013pp100-121.pdf)
* **Using a FAVAR Model for Forecasting Copper Prices.** *Journal the Chilean Economy, Vol. 15 N° 3, 2012.* (with P. Cruz) [[paper]](http://si2.bcentral.cl/public/pdf/revista-economia/2012/dic/recv15n3dic2012pp84-95.pdf)
* **An Evaluation of Forecasting Models for Copper Prices: Can we go beyond an Autoregression?.** *Journal the Chilean Economy, Vol. 14 N°3, 2011.* (with E. López and V. Riquelme) [[paper]](http://si2.bcentral.cl/public/pdf/revista-economia/2011/dic/recv14n3dic2011pp83-96.pdf)
* **Do Earthquakes Have an Impact on Inflation in Short Term? Evidence for a sample of countries.** *Journal the Chilean Economy, Vol. 13 N° 2, 2010.* (with A. Pistelli) [[paper]](http://si2.bcentral.cl/public/pdf/revista-economia/2010/ago/recv13n2ago2010pp113-127.pdf)

#  Old Working Papers:

* **Oil Prices: Geopolitical Tensions and Supply Events.** Working Paper N° 680, 2012, Central Bank of Chile. (with E. López) [[wp]](https://ideas.repec.org/p/chb/bcchwp/680.html)
* **Forecast Combination for Oil Prices: Application and Evaluation of Methodologies.** Working Paper Nº 660, 2012, Central Bank of Chile. (with M. Siravegna and M. Ricaurte) [[wp]](https://ideas.repec.org/p/chb/bcchwp/660.html)
* **Long Term Interest Rates and Fiscal Policy.** Working Paper Nº 633, 2010, Central Bank of Chile. (with E. López and V. Riquelme) [[wp]](https://ideas.repec.org/p/chb/bcchwp/633.html)
* **Structural Reforms and Total Factor Productivity.** MPRA 37362, 2009, University Library of Munich. [[wp]](https://ideas.repec.org/p/pra/mprapa/37362.html)

